## Introduction

Cognitive architectures are formalized models that concern all of cognition to serve as frameworks for theories that focus on more specific areas. The cognitive architecture Adaptive Control of Thought - Rational (ACT-R) has been used to research many facets of cognition (ACT-R Research Group, 2025). Since ACT-R's modules such as the declarative or working memory are extensive, the models created within ACT-R can be used to substantiate theories on subjects such as attention, mind-wandering or theory of mind.
When used to research human language processing however, the core modules of ACT-R seem to not be sufficient, as models created for this purpose often have to assume things incompatible with the structure of ACT-R. In Lewis and Vasishth (2005), a promising model is presented for sentence processing using ACT-R, but this model requires an indefinite amount of additional working memory. Jones (2020) improved on this idea, but still required three extra working memory buffers. It presented two main challenges. The first problem is that chunks need to be held in buffers during processing, to make sure the model can recognise when it needs to start a new sentence instead of simply expanding on the existing one. It would be preferable if this were possible through retrieval of the chunks, rather than the additional buffer. The second problem happens because during the construction of a sentence, each new word adds information to the representation of that sentence, which for ACT-R means that each processing step of that sentence is retained in memory. This can lead to retrieval conflicts, where the remaining existence of old chunks makes it seem like the model believes it is still working on previous sentence parsing steps. This leads to errors in subsequent retrieval, where embedded sentences can lead to situations where the main verb attaches to the old representation of the dependent clause rather than the independent clause, as this was more recently seen. Removing these old chunks, merging the new chunks into the old ones, or changing the likelihood with which these chunks are retrieved, could be potential solutions to this problem. 

## The project
This project makes an attempt to address these issues, by looking into the source code of ACT-R. 
I had not used the Lisp programming language before, nor had I ever looked at the code of ACT-R. To manage the amounts of new information, I first focused solely on teaching myself enough of the Lisp programming language, using the introductory book by Touretzky (2013). After I felt like I had enough understanding of the syntax and vocabulary of this new language, I started reading the ACT-R source code. Finding good starting points for this proved difficult, as unsurprisingly, there was a lot of code. I documented the code I thought to be relevant in an Obsidian vault (Dynalist Inc., 2026). I chose this software for its intuitive hyperlink features, making it easy to quickly reference related terms such as functions or variables. 

This obsidian vault/GitHub repository lists all the code I thought to be relevant for a potential solution to the problems faced in the above literature. There is more that I have looked at and documented, such as start-retrieval and clear-buffer-process but as it did not seem relevant, I removed them from this project as it would only distract. The source code for ACT-R is divided into different lisp files containing many functions grouped by what part of ACT-R they relate to, which is represented here by the different folders in which the functions are explained.

The most relevant function for this project is [[merge-chunk-into-dm]], or more accurately [[merge-chunks-fct]], which is stored in the folder for declarative memory. This function could be changed to allow for merging between chunks that do not have the exact same properties. As far as I can tell, this would only affect these two functions, leaving the rest of ACT-R intact. However, this would require a new definition of when two chunks are allowed to merge based on their contents alone, which would most likely be a rather arbitrary choice. 

Other relevant functions are [[copy-chunk-fct]] and [[chunk-copied-from]], which are stored in the folder for chunks. The first handles the copying of chunks, which is done when a chunk is retrieved from memory for example. When a chunk is copied from another chunk, the name of this original chunk is recorded in the copied chunk, which can be accessed through the function chunk-copied-from. This could be used as a way to check whether two chunks should be merged or not, as this would ensure that only chunks that build on previous chunks are merged. It could also be used to implement other ideas, such as lowering the activation from chunks that are no longer as relevant due to new chunks being retrieved. However, this again brings a problem. There are situations in which you would want copied chunks to allow merging or lose activation, but there might also be ones where you do not want this. And distinguishing between these two would be complicated.

## Future work
While I was learning a lot of Lisp and ACT-R, it did not feel like I was getting any closer to a solution. To get expert advice, we set up a meeting with Dan Bothell, who wrote most of the ACT-R codebase. He suggested that we use the hooks ACT-R provides to change parameters related to the merging of chunks. These are the chunk-add-hook, chunk-merge-hook, retrieval-set-hook, and retrieved-chunk-hook. I have not yet looked into these in detail, but the example code he gave us can be found in the hooks folder.

