## Function description
This function compares two chunks, passed as c1 and c2. It returns [[t]] or [[nil]] based on whether the chunks passed to it are equal.
Equality here is defined as either being the same exact object or as having the same amount of slots, with each slot in c1 having a corresponding slot in c2 with the same name and an equal value, using [[chunk-slot-equal]].
## Code
The function is defined, with name chunk-equal-test, and input variables c1 and c2, standing for the two chunks that will be compared.
```
(defun chunk-equal-test (c1 c2)
```
The main function here is [and](https://www.lispworks.com/documentation/HyperSpec/Body/m_and.html), with arguments c1, c2 and a nested [[or]]. This ensures that c1 is not nil, that c2 is not nil, and it will return the result of the 'or'. The 'or' has two arguments, where the first uses [[eq]] to check if c1 and c2 are the exact same object. (This means that chunk-equal-test will also return true if the two objects passed are not chunks, but still equal. (chunk-equal-test 'a 'a) will return t)
```
  (and c1 c2 (or (eq c1 c2)
```
If c1 and c2 are not the same exact object, they might still be equal to one another. To check this, first locks are placed on the two chunks to ensure the chunks can safely be accessed. 
```
                 (bt:with-recursive-lock-held ((act-r-chunk-lock c1))
                   (bt:with-recursive-lock-held ((act-r-chunk-lock c2))
```
The equal test is another [[and]]. The first half checks whether the amount of slots filled in the chunk is the exact same amount. If they are the same, we can move on.
```
                     (and (= (act-r-chunk-filled-slots c1)
                             (act-r-chunk-filled-slots c2))
```
The second half uses [[every]] to see for each slot value from c1, if it is equal to the slot with the same name in c2, using [[chunk-slot-equal]].

This is done with a lambda function, which takes one argument. This argument is called 'slot'. The function chunk-slot-equal is called with the arguments (cdr slot) and (chk-slot-value c2 (act-r-slot-name (car slot))). 
([[cdr]] slot) gives us the value of the slot from c1. 
([[car]] slot) gives us the name of the slot from c1. By calling chk-slot-value c2 with that name, we get the value of the corresponding slot from c2.
This lambda function is then called for every item in the list generated by (act-r-chunk-slot-value-lists c1), which will contain all of c1's slots. 
```
                          (every (lambda (slot)
                                   (chunk-slot-equal
                                    (cdr slot)
                                    (chk-slot-value c2 (act-r-slot-name (car slot)))))
                                 (act-r-chunk-slot-value-lists c1))))))))
```